Dear all, the Buddha is
the fully enlightened one; he knows
everything precisely, without a single error. That
is, everything the Buddha said
is the
truth. Our Buddha is not
a
fabricated being. For example, just as
we know that a hand has five fingers, and that five
fingers belong to the
hand, not that someone thinks it has five
fingers and it has four. The
truth is, this hand has five fingers, and
we see that our
hand has five fingers; that's what we
know about the hand. The
Buddha is the same; everything he
said already exists in
this realm, in this universe. He
is simply someone who knows and speaks it to us;
he is not
someone who can invent something untrue. Just as a scientist who knows about the force of gravity doesn't invent it or create it, so too does the Buddha.
Just knowing the truth is enough; even the
Buddha was like that. Only the Buddha
knew the truth completely, without a trace of
ignorance. And the
Vietnamese people have been blessed with
great fortune;
Buddhism has been present in Vietnam for a
very long time. Therefore, we have
many venerable masters who practiced the
Buddha's teachings and attained enlightenment. Thus,
Buddhist thought has permeated the
Vietnamese people. However, there have also
been periods of
prosperity and periods of upheaval. Therefore,
most Vietnamese people, even those who
haven't followed
many foreign religions, still believe in the
existence of spirituality. That's why every family lights
incense to worship their ancestors.
You see, lighting incense on the first and fifteenth days of the lunar month, during Tet (Lunar New Year), and offering prayers at graves –
all of this
is a
continuation of the Buddhist spirit from ancient times.
That's the truth;
the perspective of Buddhism differs from that of the
common people.  The part that is
tainted by other superstitious ideas is
therefore distorted. But the master
and true practitioners
clearly state the truth that the Buddha taught, just
as their masters [music] [music] [music] [music] [music] [music] [
music] [music] [music]
[music]